# Graduate_Project
Maintaining the health of plants on large farms is a critical but challenging task. A report published in Nature Ecology & Evolution in March 2019, reported that wheat losses 10-28%; rice losses 25-41%; maize losses 20-41%; potato losses 8-21%; and soybean losses 11-32%. (Burrows, 2019). The importance of detecting plants diseases in early stages is to save the cultivated plants and crops from these diseases by treating them as early as possible. Using the latest technologies in the field of IT, our proposed solution is to integrate a robotic car with a camera. This robotic car will have the power and ability to walk through farm lands and scan the plants and crops with the camera that sends the taken photos to a system that uses Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Deep Learning (DL) algorithms to detect and classify plant diseases as they arise.

Currently, farms rely on specialists to take random samples and perform tests to ensure that the plants are healthy, but this process is time-consuming and may not always produce precise results. A point to keep in mind, that these random samples taken by the specialists might not cover properly the whole farms, which leads to inaccurate results. The importance of detecting plants diseases in early stages is to save the cultivated plants and crops from these diseases by treating them in early stages of the disease where it is easy to get wanted results from this treatment. The dark side of these diseases is that they cause huge loss in the plants and crops that they infect.

According to the Sainsbury Laboratory, global crop losses from late blight are £3.5 billion annually. And that is just a particular pathogen. An estimated 10-16% of global harvest (or US$220 billion worth) is lost to plant pests every year, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). This includes huge losses in some of the world’s key commodities. A report by members of the International Society for Plant Pathology, published in Nature Ecology & Evolution in March 2019, painted a picture of the potential devastation in five crops that together make up about half the global human calorie intake: wheat losses of 10-28%; rice losses of 25-41%; maize losses of 20-41%; potato losses of 8-21%; and soybean losses of 11-32%. (Burrows, 2019)

In order to cover these points, our project came in a solution that helps to solve these problems by using the latest technologies in the field of IT. Our project is to make a robotic car with an integrated camera. This robotic car will have the power and ability to walk through farm lands and scan the plants and crops with the camera that then sends these photos to a system that will be built uses Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (DL) algorithms so detection of plants diseases and classification of these taken photos is done so easily and can come with precise results for all plants in the farms instead of taking random samples.
